# Pilot Sucess Metrics

<table><thead><tr><th width="66">#</th><th width="166">Metric</th><th width="267">Definition</th><th>Traget Measure (45 Days After Go-Live)</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td>1</td><td>#Projects Created Vs Projects Approved</td><td><p>Projects Created - Count of the projects created in the MUKTASoft</p><p>Projects Approved - Count of the projects which are identified and finalized by the ULB committee upto 1 week before till the completion of pilot.</p></td><td>80% or 5 projects whichever is higher</td></tr><tr><td>2</td><td>#Estimates Approved Vs Projects Created</td><td><p>Estimate approved - Count of estimates approved  in the MUKTASoft against a project</p><p>Projects Created - Count of the projects created in the MUKTASoft, upto 2 weeks before the completion of pilot.</p></td><td>80% or 4 projects whichever is higher</td></tr><tr><td>3</td><td>#Work Orders Accepted Vs Projects initiated on ground*</td><td><p>Work Order Accepted - Count of work orders issued and accepted by CBOs.</p><p>Projects initiated on ground.  Count of  projects where work has been initiated on ground, as on the date of completion of pilot. </p></td><td>80% or 3 projects whichever is higher</td></tr><tr><td>4</td><td>#Wage seekers engaged</td><td>Wage seekers engaged - Count of wage seekers engaged by the CBOs for the work orders accepted , upto 3 weeks before the completion of pilot. </td><td>100% wage seekers registered for applicable work orders</td></tr><tr><td>5</td><td>#Muster Rolls Approved Vs Project Period In Weeks</td><td><p>Muster rolls Approved - Muster roll created and approved.</p><p>Project Period (In Weeks) - Total period of all the accepted projects initiated upto 2 weeks before the completion of pilot. </p></td><td><p>50% or 5 muster rolls whichever is lower</p><p></p></td></tr><tr><td>6</td><td>₹Bill Created Vs ₹Bill Paid (INR)</td><td>Bill Created - Total value of bills created and due for payment<br>Bill Paid - Total value of bills cleared payments</td><td><p>80% of value of bills created</p><p><br></p></td></tr><tr><td>7</td><td>₹Works Completed as per MB Vs ₹Bill Created</td><td><p>Work Completed - As per MB the total works completed in monetary terms from approved MB.</p><p>Bill Created - The total value of bill created for payments </p></td><td>No deviation more than 5%. </td></tr></tbody></table>

